# What a Java File looks like

Java source code is held in .java files the following is in HelloWorld.java

``` Java
public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("This will be printed");
    }
}
```

We are gonna take this line by line and explain what is happening exactly.
First we have to talk just a little bit about convention.

- camelCasing - words that begin with lower case and every subsequent word receives a capital letter
- CAPITALIZATION IS IMPORTANT

## ```public class HelloWorld ```

### ``` public ```

This is called an access specifier it just means that other aspects of the code base will be able to implement other versions of this class (breath we're about to get to that)

### ``` class ```

Classes are what we call objects are the fundamental part of Object Oriented Programming (OOP). These are not to be confused with .class files which you should never look at (refer to [1.JDK&Errors.md](1.JDK&Errors.md)).

Classes are blueprints of things. Thats confusing I know but we'll talk about in a coming section

### ``` HelloWorld ```

This is the name of the class, if the class is public it must match the file name hence this code block takes place in a file called "HelloWorld.java"

## ``` public static void main(String[] args) ```

This is called a function it is a block of code that aims to do a thing. In the case of main(String[] args) the thing that it does is print the phrase "Hello World" to the console

### ``` public ```

same as the access specifier see above for more information

### ``` static ```

#### if this is the first time you are looking at code I recommend you come back to this at a later point for now just know this combination makes the code run

Static means that this thing (in this case a function) exists even if the object associated with it has yet to be instantiated (we'll also get to that). in the case of variables they become editable prior to a version of the object is created

In the case of the main function it gives the program a location to start, this is mostly for command line applications and the robot will function differently than this.

It should also be stated that a static function can only call other static functions.

### ``` void ```

This is called the return type this will be either some kind of type (we'll define that in the next file) or void. Void means that the function does not give back any data back

### ``` main(String[] args) ```

main is the name of the function , specifically this will work as a launchpad for the program you are writing, for now we can ignore the ``` String[] args ```

## ``` System.out.println("Hello World") ```

    NOTE this is technically incorrect however when it comes in the term of Robots this can generally lead to a better understanding of larger topics.

We now have to talk about libraries, in this case System. A library is a collection of code that is already written that you can use to assist you in writing your code. In the library ` System ` there is a file called ` out ` that file called out contains a function called ` println ` we than give that function the phrase ` Hello World ` and it will od something with that, in this case it will print the phrase.

This is basically how we talk to the robot. There is a some library ```WPIRoboLib``` or something like that. Which contains functions that can handle and limit power and read sensor data and all of that fun stuff by mapping motor controls and sensor controls to the central board. Just like FLL

That being said there is still a decent amount of Java Stuff that we have to talk about before we can get to touching the robot