# Variables & Data Types  

A variable is the way that java can choose to store information to make a variable you simply give it a data type (we'll get to that) and a name. sometimes you will also see people taking values onto the variables when it is being created but thats not necessary step.

Programming languages are generally really dumb and you need to tell le to do them exactly what kinds of data that they are working on for them to be absolutely anything with them. In this section we will look over the primitive data types in Java. 

It should be noted that these data types can take up space in the memory (RAM) of the robot and you may get to a point where you need to use the smallest version of something in order to optimize your code. We will not be going into the literal byte size but we will be explaining the sizes in relevance to each other

## Whole Numbers / Integers

Covers both positive and negative numbers without fractions

### ``` byte ```

A byte is the smallest possible variable, it contains values from -128 to 127 it is generally not used. To create a byte it is the following.

``` Java
byte chomp = -127;
```

### ``` short ```

A short is the 2nd smallest possible whole number variable type. It can store numbers between -32,768 and 32,767, if you attempt to exceed those bounds the variable will simply stop at the maximum.

```Java
short smallNumber = 5;
```

### ``` int ```

int is short for integer. It has a minimum value of -2<sup>31</sup> and a maximum value of 2<sup>31</sup> - 1, if you attempt to exceed those bounds the variable will simply stop at the maximum. Integers are the most common whole number used in Java

```Java
int wholeNumber = 0;
```

### ``` long ```

long is the largest whole number data type. it covers numbers between -2<sup>63</sup> and 2<sup>63</sup>. Because of the massive size of the data type it is rarely used.

```Java
long reallyBigNumber = 1000000000000000000000000;
```


## Floating point numbers

a floating point number is some whole number / integer (0 is included) followed by some fraction (decimal). These data types are great for reading in information from sensors

### ``` float ```

float is the smallest decimal available in java.

```Java
float someGreatDecimals = 10.0312
```
